# Professional Self-Assessment

## Personal 
It has been a long journey through my degree. As a kid I was always surrounded by technology as my dad worked as a developer for local financial instituations. From there and my passion for video games I always knew I would want to go into Software Development/Engineering. Throughout the program I was constantly facinated by the capabilities of computers and how powerful they truly have become. You'd have to be lying to yourself to think they would be going away. This is why I wanted to utilize love for computers to help better the world.

## Journey through the Program
I've learned a great deal throughout this program. The importance of working as a team to develop something great, developing safe and secure software through security-first programming, and learning the ability to adapt to knew challeneges. Through multiple courses we learned not only the formal way a team works, but the importance each member serves. Secure programming is impertinent to the safety of people and the software; even without the source code, it's possible to reverse-engineer software to find vulnerabilities that could allow malicious attackers to gain access to systems. In one course I was able to locate code that did not have bounds checking, which allowed me to overwrite program data. That vulnerability could allow an attacker to overwrite credentials or other information that could allow them access. Computer Science is far more than just programming, being able to communicate not only with your team but to ensure clear communication to management and stakeholders is crucial. Through Southern New Hampshire University, I was taught to create proper software documentation and how to present it to groups with different level of technical knowledge and involvement in the project. Through multiple courses I grew the skills to implement databases to better expand the functionality of software. A great example will come as the artifact I choose to enhance is focused on implementing MongoDB, a No-SQL Database system.

## Artifact Enhancements
To showcase these learned skills, I will be taking the project from a course in which I utilized Python to create a framework to interface with a MongoDB server. This project was created based on the idea that a company wants a python interface to maintain their database on stocks in a stock market. One portion allows manual stock creation, reading, updating and deletion, and the other section creates an interface that can be accessed through a web browser through HTTP requests. The first enhancement I chose to undertake was converting the project from Python to Java; each programming languages has a plethora of differences in terms of software engineering, data structures, and so forth. This enhancement showcases my abilities to adapt and learn to new challenges. The second enhancement is focused towards improving the algorithms and data structures of the original python code. As I explain throughout my code review, the original code has a lot of room for improvement. Some improvments to the software include improving the functionalitiy while reducing redundancy. The third and final enhancement implements a webpage interface to facilitate the creation, retrevigin, updating, and deletion of stocks; the original method to use this software involved manually creating HTTP requests through curl requests or through third party software such as Postman.

## Final Remarks
The ability to overcome and adapt is invaluable. My father was gave me the advice once "You don't always need to know the answer, you just need to know where you can get the answer." This has stuck with me throughout my life and I think it holds especially true with Computer Science; there is so much to learn and discover that it's impossible to know everything, but being able to find the information is the first step towards achieving that. This advice helped me get to where I am today and create the artifacts in this portfolio.

# ePortfolio Elements
- [Code Review](https://youtu.be/ApvjrFq6wMU)
- [Artifact Enhancement 1](enhancement_1/enhancement1.md)
- [Artifact Enhancement 2](enhancement_2/enhancement2.md)
- [Artifact Enhancement 3](enhancement_3/enhancement3.md)
